Unfortunately, Google ads will only ever
get more expensive, not cheaper, which
makes it much more difficult to become
profitable. I find myself often getting
questions that are super tactical and
micro, things like, "What's the best
bidding strategy? How do you optimize
quality score?" You know, things that
matter but aren't necessarily the most
important thing depending on where that
account is. and they're kind of losing
sight of the bigger picture in terms of
what are the levers that I should be
thinking about to not only improve the
health of my Google ads, but improve the
health of my business, right? In terms
of making things more profitable so I
can sustain a higher cost per click,
improve conversion rates, and ultimately
win against the competition. If you're
new to this video, I'm Sylvia Perez. I'm
the founder of Ad Conversion. We teach
8,000 plus B2B marketers how to master
ads, and we manage over $3 million a
month in ad spend for top B2B SAS
brands. In this video, I'm going to
share with you how to think about
profitability, how to optimize for it in
Google Ads, and understand as a
strategist the perspective you should be
having so you can go from the 10,000 ft
view of the macro to the absolute micro
of bidding strategies, quality score
optimization, localization, and all
these other things that we're going to
touch on. Let's kick off with the three
levers. So, these are your strategic
pillars. You can think of them as your
foundational places. So you can start
from this and then you can drill in or
go back up depending on where you need
to be. And it's really helpful to think
in terms of these three pillars or these
three levers because it'll really allow
you to have that macro view and not lose
sight of it when you drill into the
weeds of, you know, the day-to-day
things in Google Ads. So the three
pillars are traffic, conversion, and
product. So these are the three things
that you should really be obsessing
about, thinking about as a business at
all given times. So for instance for
traffic, can we buy more highquality
traffic at a discount or can we buy
higher quality traffic that will convert
at a higher rate that will offset that
the increased cost of said traffic? Or
can we improve conversions and optimize
our conversion experience so that
despite rising costs, we offset those
costs because our conversion rates are
increasing. Or finally, from a product
perspective, can we make our product
more attractive? Can we improve time to
value? Can we improve ACV? Can we
improve average revenue per user? Can we
optimize the product itself so that we
can afford to pay for for more traffic
essentially? So these are the three
pillars that as a advertiser it's very
helpful to have in your mind. So when
you are in the micro of the dayto-day of
running a Google ad account you have
this in the back of your head so that
you understand am I fighting a winnable
fight here? Right? Because what I really
hope you walk away from this video is
that you can catch yourself when you're
focused too micro on things that don't
forget about ROI, like return on effort.
Like it just doesn't really make sense
or it's not going to be the thing that
really changes the game for your
business, right? Like it's like you have
80% optimal efficiency in your Google ad
account structure and you're still
obsessing over getting from 80 to 85%
where you know like your free trial
onboarding sucks, right? If you're if
you're SAS and you're converting at like
a a rate of like 1%. Let's optimize
that. You would improve everything else,
right? Or maybe your conversions on your
landing pages are really bad, right? So
this is really helpful to just make sure
you don't fall into that trap. Let's go
ahead and kick off with the first lever
here, which is traffic. So, let's go
ahead and break that down. So, within
traffic, I want to kind of just break
down like where my mind goes, what I
found to be helpful, and like what to
think about. So, essentially with
traffic, the goal here is you want the
best traffic for the lowest cost.
Unfortunately, if you look at your
average cost per click in your Google ad
account, you compare it a year from now,
two years from now, like you know that
it only ever goes up and to the right.
Unfortunately, it's only going to get
more expensive, right? So, with that
frame and reality in mind, there's a few
things. So, the first thing we want to
do on the traffic side is we want to
make sure that we are actually paying
for the right kind of searches. So, what
you want to do is you want to do a
search term audit. And the search term
audit is basically you're going to go
look at your actual search term report.
These are the things that you're
actually paying for. People think you're
bidding on a keyword and then you just
show up for things that speak about that
keyword. And it couldn't be further from
the truth. In in practice, I could bid
on the keyword CRM platform, but then I
could show up for like, you know, I
don't know what is a CRM or like
something even more outlandish like
that. So, basically, what you want to do
is you want to audit your search terms.
You want to build your negative keyword
list up and you want to make sure that
80% of the time you are actually showing
up for things that make sense for your
business. It sounds so basic, but you
would be shocked at the amount of people
that miss this. Again, you bid on
keywords, but you pay for search terms.
So, make sure that the search terms you
show up for actually make sense. This is
how you quality check your traffic.
Notice how I'm not even talking about
quality score as a metric or any of that
because that's an optimization of cost,
which we'll talk about. You just want to
make sure you're showing up for the
right things because if you're not
showing up for the right things,
everything else kind of doesn't matter.
So, after you've done a search term
audit, the next thing I want you to
think about is how can I improve my
media cost or how can I optimize media
costs? And I I kind of want to break
this down for you. So, when it comes to
media cost, there's a few things that
come to my mind. Number one is match
types. So, your match types are also a
factor of improving quality. So, there's
exact match, phrase match, and broad
match. And essentially what you can do
is you can loosen the maps type to drive
a lower cost per click. So Google what
we're finding in our accounts is like
Google is penalizing us for going
stricter you know like more specific.
I'm not saying don't use exact or phrase
match. You should absolutely use it. But
what we're noticing in terms of a cost
per click perspective is we're paying
much more expensive cost per clicks for
exact match then phrase and then
following broad. We usually get massive
discounts. So playing with match types
can improve your media cost. So for
instance, if I go broad, maybe I pay $6
a click versus if I go exact match,
maybe I'm paying $16 a click. This is
something that you can think about in
terms of like a micro lever within media
cost to pull on to try to optimize that.
The second one is bidding. So bidding
strategies. So bidding is this is all
about like the types of bidding
strategies you're using. So if we're
using max conversions, target CPA,
manual CPC, these are all different
types of bidding strategies you can use.
So for instance, when it comes to
bidding strategies, what we have found
right now, this could change, but just
to give you guys a little, you know,
direction is we're finding target CPA
works really well when it optimizes
towards a single conversion event. And
then we also find manual CPC could
actually work pretty well in some
instances, especially with like brand
campaigns. So basically what you could
do is you can try to optimize your
bidding to also optimize the media cost.
So for instance if we're using target
CPA we're being a bit more specific
where we're saying Google we don't want
to pay you know anything for a
conversion we only want to buy
conversions around this cost or if we
use manual CPC this could be really
powerful because sometimes Google will
artificially inflate your bids
especially if you don't have a lot of
conversion history. So by starting
manual, you will force Google to enter
the auction at that amount and it can
drive a lower cost per click. And if it
actually converts for you, it could
actually make more sense for the
business. So when you think about levers
like this, and I'm going really in the
weeds here, you can almost see it as
like a a tree and then you're looking at
the roots of the tree and then you as
the strategist, you're pulling on and
you know, pulling out the the weeds that
don't make sense in terms of like how it
supports the overall infrastructure of
the tree. So, when I'm thinking about
traffic and I'm thinking about how can I
get the best traffic possible at the
lowest cost for Google ads, this is like
where my brain is going. Are we showing
for the right search terms? Are we using
the right bidding strategies that
support our goals? Are our match types,
you know, and do they make sense, right?
In relation to our search terms and in
relation to like our economics as a
business, how much can we afford in
terms of cost per click, right? What is
our conversion rates? Have we done that
math to understand our economics, right?
What is our break even cost per lead?
This is kind of where my mind is going.
The next one too that you can pull on
for optimizing media cost is
localization. So localization is where
now you are bidding on the same keyword
but you're doing it in a different
country or you're doing it in a
different language. This is also a great
way to just drive a lower cost per
click. So for instance, if it costs me,
you know, $30 a click in the United
States, maybe that keyword costs $25 a
click in Canada. Maybe it costs $5 a
click in Spanish, right? This is another
way you can optimize cost. Okay. And
lastly, we have quality score. So
quality score is how relevant are your
keywords, your ads, and your landing
pages in relation to the query that the
user searched. And quality score is a
lever that you can pull to optimize
media cost. Because the way ad rank is
calculated, ad rank is the score that
determines if your ad is on the top of
the page or nowhere to be found. The way
it works is it's looking at your max bid
times your quality score times the
expected impact of ad extensions. So
essentially what that means in in in
simple language is the higher your
quality score is and the better your
bidding strategy is, the more
competitive you're being on your bidding
strategy, the higher your ad rank will
be, the more often you will show up on
the top of the page. So quality score is
something you can pull on to try to
optimize media cost because the higher
the quality score, the less competitive
your bid must be. So when it comes to
quality score, and this could be a whole
separate video, there are three
components that make up your quality
score. You have ad relevance, you have
landing page experience, and then you
have expected click-through rate. And
each one of these things you can
optimize for to try to improve the
overall score of your quality score. So
for me as the Google ads advertiser, I
could do a quality score audit and I
could see what is the average quality
score of my account and then I can
understand okay is there something I can
pull on here right can I optimize my my
ad relevance and improve my structure of
my account can I optimize my landing
page experience can I improve my
expected clickthrough rate etc etc so
again these are all like sub levers
within the lever of optimizing media
cost that you as the strategist and the
advertiser can think about to improve
the overall health of your account. So
when it comes to traffic, in summary, we
are trying to drive the highest quality
clicks at the lowest cost possible so we
can feed all that traffic into our
funnel to then move on to the next
lever, which is all about conversion.
Okay, now that we've talked endlessly
about traffic, I hope your brain is
firing with ideas and I hope you're
loving this video. If you are, help me
out by hitting that thumbs up button
down below. Now, let's talk about
conversion. How can we optimize
conversion? So, you're driving all of
this great traffic at the lowest cost
possible, but it's not converting. What
do you do? Right? Where I see this
happen more times than not, especially
in B2B SAS, is we are over obsessed
about traffic. I think for the most
part, people do an okay job with
traffic, but then they completely fail
when it comes to conversion and and
actual, you know, the product itself.
So, when it comes to conversion, there's
a few things here. Uh, number one, which
is no shocker to anyone, it's your
landing pages. I think it is criminal
how few attention, effort, energy goes
to landing pages and how much goes
towards traffic. It's like so backwards.
Like people spend 90% of their attention
on the traffic and they spend 10% of
their attention on the actual conversion
aspect around the landing pages. So when
it comes to your landing pages, there
are a few things to really think about.
Number one I would say is start off by
really focusing on the hero section of
your landing page. So the hero section
of your landing page is what they see
before they scroll. And there's a great
test in the conversion rate optimization
world called the 5-second test. And the
5-second test basically is if I land on
your hero section in 5 seconds, can I
understand what you do, why it matters,
who do you help, and how I can take the
next step? And if the answer is no, then
there's opportunity to be had in terms
of improving your hero section. I'll
give you a quick story. Uh we had a
consulting client where they were
they're they're massive. They spend like
300K a month in Google ads and for the
longest time they were over obsessing on
quality score, bidding strategies,
campaign structures, keyword expansion.
They were doing everything they could to
drive more traffic. And when I looked at
their landing page conversion rate, it
was like 0.03%.
Which is awful. And I was like, "Guys,
how about we just pause a bit on like
this over obsession on traffic and, you
know, buying all the traffic we can and
finding new keyword opportunities and
instead we improve our hero section.
This is what your hero section looks
like today. Let's just make these few
tweaks, right? And let's see how it
goes." Fast forward a few days because
the the benefit of having such a large
account is you can acquire data so fast.
Their conversion rate on their hero
section went from 0, you know, 3% or
give or take to like 1.8%.
Which is still not great, but it's way
better than it was before. And all we
did was we optimized the hero section.
So the way I think about it is like for
every dollar you spend on ads, spend $2
on your landing pages because they're
that important. This is everything in
terms of making you more profitable. So,
if you take one thing from this video,
it's go give your landing pages some
love because that's the bottleneck and
the opportunity that's probably going to
help you get to the next level. So, for
here in the hero section, what we really
want to do is we want to make sure we
have a strong headline that speaks to a
specific problem. We want to make sure
that we are really optimizing every
single pixel above the fold. Like, it
needs to add value. If it doesn't add
value, you kill it. It could be a whole
separate video on landing pages. So, I'm
not going to go too into the weeds here,
but really optimize your landing pages.
The other one, too, that I would say
really gives a lot of big wins is your
form. How does your form look? How many
fields are you asking people for, is it
possible to make it multi-step and break
it down and make it a bit more
digestible? And then the last one here
when it comes to the landing page is
your offer. At the end of the day, if
people don't care about what you have to
say or what you have to give or offer,
you're kind of like so. So, what we find
a lot of times is especially SAS
companies, cuz that's what we operate
in, it's like they're underelling the
value of their demo. It's like they're
just saying like request a demo. But
when you actually watch a sales call
recording, you realize like that was
actually super valuable. It wasn't just
a demo. It was like this diagnostic
analysis and like you broke down all of
these different things and you unblock
these problems, but they like underell
themsel because they call it a demo. So
for you, think about your hero page,
think about your form, think about your
offer. These are the things that you can
really pull on to really optimize the
the conversion side so that that traffic
that you're paying for, especially when
it's expensive, can really move the
needle for you. Just wanted to take a
quick second and say if you're loving
this video, you will absolutely love our
free courses over at adconversion.com.
They are seriously free. We've got
courses on Google ads, Reddit ads,
LinkedIn ads, and more. Seriously free.
You can check them all out at
adconversion.com. And if you don't
believe us, you can check out our wall
of love. Uh for us, like our mission and
vision is like we want to build the
go-to place in the world to learn how to
run B2B ads. I started at conversion
because there was nothing like this and
I spent so much money on unqualified
people and just getting ripped off by
people who are not actually doing the
work. So here at conversion.com you can
access our courses for free and you can
check out our wall of love if you don't
believe us and if you're loving this
video you will absolutely love us at
conversion.com. So take it out. Okay,
let's talk about the final pillar that
you can pull on in terms of improving
your profitability of your Google ads
which is your product. And when it comes
to your product, there are a multitude
of things and depending on the type of
business you are, it'll look a little
bit different. So, I'm going to try to
speak to the the different kinds of
models out there. So, you have salesled
businesses that have some sort of
salesled motion, right? This is usually
in the form of a meeting being booked,
some sort of diagnostic with the
salesperson, and then it moves on to
later stages. For productled people,
it's usually free trial, then they
activate inapp, and then they become a
paid user. So I'll kind of speak to
both, but basically you want to optimize
your motion. So when it comes to
optimizing your motion, there are a few
things that come to my mind. Number one
is your onboarding experience. So this
is for PLG. So how fast are you making
it for free trial users to actually
receive value? Like nailing that time to
value. And we launched our SAS 80 days
ago, give or take, depending on when
you're watching this. And it's an ad
automation platform. It helps you
optimize your ads 24 hours a day by
building workflows for LinkedIn ads,
Google ads, met ads, and YouTube ads.
And even oursel, like we're we're early
stage, and we're really still in the
process of trying to figure out our
onboarding experience, making it better,
creating multiple free trial accounts,
and just going through it as like a new
user. I have like 30 emails, kid you
not, from just like trying to go through
my app again and again and again and
like trying to understand how I can
improve the onboarding experience. So
for you really doing that due diligence
and trying to see how can I remove and
eliminate as many steps as I can so that
the onboarding experience is smoother
and that the time to value is better.
This is not necessarily like our purview
as a Google advertiser, right? because
we're just focusing on the traffic and
the conversion piece, but this is
hurting you whether you choose to
acknowledge it or not. And being a, you
know, strategist, you need to be able to
see the entire process, not just a small
piece that you look at and then, you
know, you don't connect it to the
business. So, if you are the Google
advertiser, if you're watching this, I'm
assuming you are, take a look at your
onboarding experience and see are there
opportunities to improve the onboarding
experience, even if it's not your
responsibility, it's still going to
impact your results. So for instance
maybe for my onboarding experience so
for us in Sammy what we've done is we've
created something called SAM templates
and SAM templates are basically like
templates of automation. So we have
different things you could do. So for
example one of them is around ad
fatigue. So if you want to get notified
of ad fatigue in real time or if you
want to ad schedule on LinkedIn or if
you want to pause ads that have never
performed and they're burning cash or if
you want to scale top performing
campaigns in your budgets. We have
different templates that we've created
to like simplify building these
workflows out because if we didn't have
them, getting started with Sammy would
be 10 times harder. So look at your
onboarding experience if your product
led and see if there's opportunities to
improve that process and make it faster
to receive time to value. The second one
that comes to my mind in terms of
optimizing your product is increasing
your RPU, which is your annual revenue
per user or average revenue per user, or
your ACV, your average contract value if
you're salesled, or you know your ads.
There's so many acronyms. Average deal
size. But basically, you're trying to
make more money per person that comes in
contact with your business. This means
you need to optimize your pricing. Oof,
that's scary. I know, but you need to
test pricing and this is something that
should always be like evergreen ongoing
that you should be optimizing with
because this is a lever. So, for
instance, like for us with Sammy, it
costs $99 a month on a monthly basis if
if you're on our yearly plan and then
it's like the $119 a month right now if
you're on our monthly plan. And in the
future, we should test pricing. So, we
should see can we increase it? doesn't
make sense to go from 119 to 130 or 130
to 150, right? We should play with that.
And it doesn't seem like a big increase,
but it's massive in terms of the
downstream impacts and your ability to
offset cost. The other one in terms of
actually improving profitability is not
just increasing your revenue per user or
customer, it's retaining them. So
reducing churn is massive. Every time
you cut churn in half, you just doubled
your business, which isite quite
remarkable. So how how many of the users
you acquire are you actually keeping and
looking at churn by traffic source is
really powerful. So what is your average
churn from your Google ads customers
that you drive versus other sources
because the churn rates will be
different. So looking at churn and
optimizing churn is massive because
essentially by retaining and reducing
churn what you're really doing is you're
improving your lifetime value. Right? So
if somebody pays me 99 bucks a month and
they stay with me for three months I
make $300. But if they stay with me for
a year, I just made $1,200, right?
That's massive. 1,200 versus 300. Do the
math. Work backwards. I can afford
paying $35 a click now, right? As an
example. So, increasing your lifetime
value will improve your ability to
actually get somebody to pay for a more
higher cost per click and be able to
offset the cost of traffic. This is
actually what all the big guys are
doing, right? So like all of the big
businesses that you see paying these
ridiculous amounts of money for this
expensive traffic, paying 80, 90, $100 a
click, the reason why they can do this
and not go out of business is because
they have a massive backend. They've
built this incredible backend where they
can really squeeze and maximize the
lifetime value of every single customer
that comes their way. And in I think in
e-commerce more than most industries
they run into this problem because
you're selling a product for 20 bucks,
10 bucks, 15 bucks and then your cost
per click is $6. Like you don't have a
lot of margin. You don't have a lot of
flexibility. So whatever you can do to
try to increase the average revenue per
user or customer will be really
beneficial. So for us, we play in the
SAS world in B2B, but I know in
e-commerce this is where like bundling
is really helpful. You can bundle
products together. uh you can add
bonuses, things like this so that you
can try to increase the average revenue
per user or you can get them on a
subscription versus a one-time sale. All
of these things go towards improving
your lifetime value. And notice how like
none of this has to do with your Google
ads. But this stuff will hurt you.
Again, it's not your responsibility, but
if you can understand this stuff and you
can communicate these things to your
clients, to your stakeholders if you're
working in house, it's going to make you
a much more effective strategist. And
ultimately, we're all on the same team
and we want to make profitability
possible. I hope this video is valuable.
Be sure to give this video a thumbs up.
Really helps us grow our reach as a
small channel. And subscribe so you can
be notified of future videos. When
you're ready, check us out at
adconversion.com and join our community
of 8,000 plus beauty marketers and
master ads with our free courses. I'll
see you in the next one.